[docs](load) split insert into values and insert into select (#1379)
apache/doris-website: docs/data-operate/import/import-way/insert-into-values-manual.md

| Err       | Error message                                                |
| TxnId     | ID of the import transaction                                 |

**Successful INSERT**

```sql
mysql> INSERT INTO test_table (user_id, name, age) VALUES (1, "Emily", 25), (2, "Benjamin", 35), (3, "Olivia", 28), (NULL, "Alexander", 60), (5, "Ava", 17);
Query OK, 5 rows affected (0.05 sec)
{'label':'label_26eebc33411f441c_b2b286730d495e2c', 'status':'VISIBLE', 'txnId':'61071'}
```

`Query OK` indicates successful execution. `5 rows affected` indicates that a total of 5 rows of data have been imported. 

**Successful INSERT with warnings**

```sql
mysql> INSERT INTO test_table (user_id, name, age) VALUES (1, "Emily", 25), (2, "Benjamin", 35), (3, "Olivia", 28), (NULL, "Alexander", 60), (5, "Ava", 17);
Query OK, 4 rows affected, 1 warning (0.04 sec)
{'label':'label_a8d99ae931194d2b_93357aac59981a18', 'status':'VISIBLE', 'txnId':'61068'}
```

`Query OK` indicates successful execution. `4 rows affected` indicates that a total of 4 rows of data have been imported. `1 warnings` indicates the number of rows that were filtered out. 

> You can use the [SHOW LOAD](../../../sql-manual/sql-statements/Show-Statements/SHOW-LOAD/) statement to view the filtered rows.

Reviewer: new path : ../../../sql-statements/data-modification/load-and-export/SHOW-LOAD.md

> You can use the [SHOW LOAD](../../../sql-manual/sql-statements/Show-Statements/SHOW-LOAD/) statement to view the filtered rows.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the [SHOW LOAD](../../../sql-statements/data-modification/load-and-export/SHOW-LOAD.md) statement to view the filtered rows.
```

      Progress: Unknown id: 77158
          Type: INSERT
       EtlInfo: NULL
      TaskInfo: cluster:N/A; timeout(s):14400; max_filter_ratio:0.0
      ErrorMsg: NULL
    CreateTime: 2024-11-20 16:35:40
  EtlStartTime: 2024-11-20 16:35:40
 EtlFinishTime: 2024-11-20 16:35:40
 LoadStartTime: 2024-11-20 16:35:40
LoadFinishTime: 2024-11-20 16:35:40
           URL: http://10.16.10.7:8743/api/_load_error_log?file=__shard_18/error_log_insert_stmt_a8d99ae931194d2b-93357aac59981a19_a8d99ae931194d2b_93357aac59981a19
    JobDetails: {"Unfinished backends":{},"ScannedRows":0,"TaskNumber":0,"LoadBytes":0,"All backends":{},"FileNumber":0,"FileSize":0}
 TransactionId: 61068
  ErrorTablets: {}
          User: root
       Comment: 
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

**Successful INSERT with committed status**

```sql
mysql> INSERT INTO test_table (user_id, name, age) VALUES (1, "Emily", 25), (2, "Benjamin", 35), (3, "Olivia", 28), (4, "Alexander", 60), (5, "Ava", 17);
Query OK, 5 rows affected (0.04 sec)
{'label':'label_78bf5396d9594d4d_a8d9a914af40f73d', 'status':'COMMITTED', 'txnId':'61074'}
```

The invisible state of data is temporary, and the data will eventually become visible. 

> You can check the visibility status of a batch of data using the [SHOW TRANSACTION](../../../sql-manual/sql-statements/Show-Statements/SHOW-TRANSACTION/) statement.

Reviewer: new path : ../../../sql-manual/sql-statements/transaction/SHOW-TRANSACTION.md

> You can check the visibility status of a batch of data using the [SHOW TRANSACTION](../../../sql-manual/sql-statements/Show-Statements/SHOW-TRANSACTION/) statement.

Author: ```suggestion
You can check the visibility status of a batch of data using the [SHOW TRANSACTION](../../../sql-manual/sql-statements/transaction/SHOW-TRANSACTION.md) statement.
```

## Best practice

### Data size

INSERT INTO VALUES is usually used for test and demo, it is not recommended to load large quantity data with INSERT INTO VALUES.

### View error rows

When the INSERT INTO result includes a URL field, you can use the following command to view the error rows:

```SQL
SHOW LOAD WARNINGS ON "url";
```

Example:

```sql
mysql> SHOW LOAD WARNINGS ON "http://10.16.10.7:8743/api/_load_error_log?file=__shard_18/error_log_insert_stmt_a8d99ae931194d2b-93357aac59981a19_a8d99ae931194d2b_93357aac59981a19"\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
         JobId: -1
         Label: NULL
ErrorMsgDetail: Reason: column_name[user_id], null value for not null column, type=BIGINT. src line []; 
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

Common reasons for errors include: source data column length exceeding destination column length, column type mismatch, partition mismatch, and column order mismatch.

You can control whether INSERT INTO ignores error rows by configuring the environment variable `enable_insert_strict`.

## More help

> For more detailed syntax on INSERT INTO, refer to the [INSERT INTO](../../../sql-manual/sql-statements/Data-Manipulation-Statements/Manipulation/INSERT/) command manual. You can also type `HELP INSERT` at the MySQL client command line for further information.

Reviewer: New path : ../../../sql-statements/data-modification/DML/INSERT.md
